fix: update resource cache proposal to global context (#2)
JimBugwadia/KDP: proposals/resource_cache.md

# Meta
[meta]: #meta

> - Name: Prefetched Global Context Entry

Reviewer: Just call it `Global Context Entry`

- Start Date: Aug 7, 2023
- Update Date: Jan 31st, 2024

> - Author(s): @JimBugwadia

Reviewer: Please add yourself

# Proposal

There are two parts to this feature:

> 1. Allow users to manage which resources should be prefetched

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Allow users to manage what data should be loaded in a global context.
```

> 2. Allow policy rules to reference global context data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Allow policy rules to reference global context data.

The global context is populated when Kyverno is started, and can be referenced by multiple policy rules. Kubernetes resource data, fetched from the API server is automatically updated based on events. Data fetched from other sources can be periodically updated.
```

Users can manage which resources to cache by creating a new custom resource called `GlobalContextEntry` provided by Kyverno. This will decouple the creation and usage of a global entry. 

A `GlobalContextEntry` will be of two types:

> 1. `K8sResource`: A resource is a Kubernetes resource that should be prefetched, to create a `GlobalContextEntry` of resource type, the following resource should be created:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. `k8sResource`: A resource is a Kubernetes resource that should be prefetched, to create a `GlobalContextEntry` of resource type, the following resource should be created:
```

> 1. `k8sResource`: A resource is a Kubernetes resource that should be prefetched, to create a `GlobalContextEntry` of resource type, the following resource should be created:

Reviewer: lets call this `kubernetesResource` or `resource`.

```yaml
apiVersion: kyverno.io/v2alpha1
kind: GlobalContextEntry
metadata:
  name: ingress
spec:

>   k8sResource:

Reviewer: Lets call this `kubernetesResource` or `resource`.

    group: "apis/networking.k8s.io"
    version: "v1"
    kind: "ingresses"
    namespace: apps
```

This resource allows authors to declare what Kubernetes resource should be prefetched. The `group` and `version` are optional. If not specified, the preferred versions should be used. An optional `namespace` can be used to only store resources from the namespace, rather than across all namespaces which is the behavior if a namespace is not specified.

> 2. `APICall`: An APICall is an external API call response that should be prefetched, to create a `GlobalContextEntry` of the APICall type, the following resource should be created:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. `apiCall`: An APICall is an external API call response that should be prefetched, to create a `GlobalContextEntry` of the APICall type, the following resource should be created:
```

# Proposal

There are two parts to this feature:
1. Allow users to manage what data should be loaded in a global context.
2. Allow policy rules to reference global context data.

> The global context is populated when Kyverno is started, and can be referenced by multiple policy rules. Kubernetes resource data, fetched from the API server is automatically updated based on events. Data fetched from other sources can be periodically updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The global context is populated when Kyverno runs, and can then be referenced by multiple policy rules. Kubernetes resource data, fetched from the API server is automatically updated based on events. Data fetched from other sources can be periodically updated.
```

    refreshIntervalSeconds: 10
```

This allows authors to declare what API response should be stored. The `url` is the URL where the request will be sent. `caBundle` is a PEM-encoded CA bundle that will be used to validate the server certificate. The `refreshIntervalSeconds` is the interval after which the URL will be reached again to refresh the entry.

One global context entry can have only one `k8sResource` or `apiCall`.

To reference these context entries in a policy, we can add them to the context variable as follows,
```yaml
context:
  - name: ingresses
    globalContext:
      name: ingress
      jmespath: "ingresses | items[].spec.rules[].host"
```

`globalContextEntry.name` is the name of the entry to be used. The JMESPath is optional and is applied to add a resulting subset of the resource data to the rule context.

# Implementation

> Global context will require an in-memory store that will be stored in every controller. We will store both types of context entries as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The global context uses an in-memory store in each controller instance. We will store both types of context entries as follows:
```

can be converted to:

Context declaration:
```yaml
apiVersion: kyverno.io/v2alpha1
kind: GlobalContextEntry
metadata:
  name: staging_deployments
spec:

>   k8sresource:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  k8sResource:
```
